# Entry 6
##### 6/1/25
### Context
My partner Shelly and I created a 3D survival game called Endless enemies for fun. In this game you try to survive the longest without dying to the mobs while slaying them to gain as much point as possible. There is no escape and no goal besides gaining the highest score possible. The user controls the player using WASD, clicking and spacebar to move, hit and jump. The creation of this game was made using [goDot engine](https://www.bing.com/search?pglt=297&q=godot&cvid=eeeefc75ac2848c5a981c85d622d408d&gs_lcrp=EgRlZGdlKgYIABBFGDkyBggAEEUYOTIGCAEQABhAMgYIAhAAGEAyBggDEAAYQDIGCAQQABhAMgYIBRAAGEAyBggGEAAYQDIGCAcQABhAMgYICBAAGEDSAQgxMzA5ajBqMagCALACAA&FORM=ANNTA1&PC=HCTS) with [github workspace](https://github.com/) and assets stores.

After finishing the MVP, we were given time to add additional features to our project. Along with that, we had time to create in class slides, present and prepare for the EXPO. 

### Process Beyond MVP
After finishing my minimum viable product of the goDot game, we had a few days to enhance our product before presentation in class and during the EXPO. With that time spand, we decided to:
* Create a scoreboard; with every monster defeated score increases by 1
* Add a deathscreen; When you die a new screen pops up

### Takeaway from EXPO
After giving our [Elevator pitch](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jl_BJqS9FOQr_QXS4s4OSuVKG_-N49fPfOmiAvXQs3U/edit) in the EXPO to our the classmates and judges we realized some takeaways:

1. Having a short but clear elevator pitch is important. Without a elevator pitch, people will not be able to understand what you created. An elevator pitch gives viewers an idea on what you created, the process but also how you created it. It allows people to become engaged with your project as it makes them more connected and willing to look at it. It is basically a first impression of your product, which is important because it determines whether or not someone like it. From giving it and watching people give it, we noticed that the ones with short but good pitches got the attention of judges and classmates. Those picthes made the audience more interested in their project, and actually speak and ask the creators questions. This is when we realized an elevator pitch is important because it a way to grab someone attention.

2. Speak with a voice. When we were giving the pitch, we spoke to the audience with a very engaging and happy tone which made them more engaging as well. Instead of following like a strict speech, we gave our own personally into it, and spoke as if we knew them for a long time. We didn't shy away and give a boring and monotone pitch but rather gave our own vibes into it, which made our pitch more fun to listen to.  When we listened to other pitches that sounded dead, we saw that the people listening to it looked bored and left as soon as it finished. This made us realized that the way we give a pitch is just as important as what we say.

3. Everyone's opinion is different. When we finished our game, we thought that this was the most uninteresting product we could of created. There was nothing to do besides killing the mobs. However, it seemed like the people that played this game had a different view. They looked interested in our game and thought it was a cool idea. When they saw us playing it, they wanted to also try which made us quite happy as we realized that their opinion is different than ours. They even thought our pitch was unique and interesting to listen to, which was not what we expected because who would want to listen to someone yappering about their project. When I saw their reactions to our game, it made us realize that maybe we thought our game and pitch with uninteresting because we spent so much time on it that we eventually got tired and bored of it. This is why I put this as a takeaway because it is important to understand that everyone view on something is different, just because you find something boring does not mean another person does too. 

### Takeaway from In-Class Presentation
We created a [google slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jl_BJqS9FOQr_QXS4s4OSuVKG_-N49fPfOmiAvXQs3U/edit) that goes over our process, challenges, and takeaways so that we have something to present to the class during our in class presentation. From the class presentation, we had some takeaways not the ones on our slides but ones we realized after reviewing the journey to the presentation. The main takeaways are listed below with explanation.  

1. Communication is key. Not only did we have to communicate while working on the game together, we had to do it even more during the creation of our slides. A few days before the slides were due we would call on discord, text and leave comments for each other so that we know who is working and speaking on what. In order for us to organize our slides we had to actively speak to each other to change and revise anything we needed to. We even went far and gave intense feedback to each other for any missing images, words or ideas we should address in our presentation. Together we made sure everything was well planned, slides were done, and we are prepared to face the class and explain during our day. To perfect our speeches, we briefly went over a test run so that we memorized the general format of our ideas and slides so that we don't end up messing up during the real deal. Without any of communication with shelly through feedbacks or simply talking while working we would definitely not have been as confident and able to speak to the class, let alone even complete our slides. That is why we believe communication is key because it was the building stone of our successful presentation we gave in class.
  
2. When you miss up or forget Improvise. You have no idea how much times we miss up or forgot what to say during our presentation. It was more times than my fingers can count. When it did happen, we came up with something to say on the spot instead of making a big deal out of it. Since, we were aware of our slide order and a general idea of what we wanted to say, we were able to phrase our words to continue our speech. We were nervous whenever we messed up but we continued to speak and regain our words to give a clear presentation. In fact we probably improvised most of our presentation because of the nerves that got to us. Even then, we were able to successful give a good presentation to the class and for them not to even notice when we messed up. This is why we believe that if you do mess up or forgot just find words to say that relates because it's better than stopping. If we stopped ever time and made a deal of it then we would have not been able to deliever a well thought out presentation or in the worst case be cut off by the bell or teacher.

3. Speak slowly, clearly and pause. When we went up in front of the class, it is easy to forget to speak slowly and clearly as we want to quickly finish this. However, it is important to slow down your speech and to project your words so that the audience is able to understand what your saying. If your going to present than deal with the nervousness and try your best to deliever your thoughts the best you can to the people. If people don't understand what your saying then they will be lost and that is not what we want. For us, we tried our best to do this and eventually we did as we calm down the nerves by telling ourselves it is okay. Another important thing we learned is to pause. When we were speaking, we should of paused more often to gather our thoughts and also to let the class process what we just said. Pausing allows us to calm down and think before we spoke again which was important since it decreases stuttering and also allows us to be more confident in the class. If we never attempt to do any of this, our presentation would of been super bad as we were be speeding through it, not giving time for ourselves to think and untimely fail to deliver our product and process. This is why we believe this is an important takeaway because in life when were presentation or speaking we need to be able to do this.

### Engineering design process
We are currently on step 8 of the [Engineering Design Process](https://hstatsep.github.io/students/) which is to communicate our results. After presentating in the class and in the EXPO, we will receieve feedback which will bring us back to step 7 which is to improve as needed. During this month, we were able to communicate and share our product that we worked hard for to our class, classmates and also judges while receiving feedbacks to improve on our creation. After this year, the Engineering Design Process will restart and go back to step 1, defining the process. Although I wont be in software engineering anymore, I will still be using this framework because I will create future projects. However as of now, my goal is to explain how I created my product to my peers and to showcase all the work I have done to make myself proud.

### Skills
The skills I used and improved in this blog are Communication and Time Management. Communication is the ability to advocate your ideas to your peers, to the class and basically anyone. Time management is the ability to manage your time properly so that you meet deadlines and not get too stressed out. In this blog we used both the skills but mainly communication. We had to communicate for almost everything from finishing our slides to giving feedback to each other. We had to call certain nights to work on the project together and to review our slides before presentation. Not to mention, we had to actually present to the class and to give a pitch during the expo so that we can explain our project to our peers. All of this communicating, allowed us to improve on it because we had to actively share our ideas and opinions. During all of this time management also played a huge role. We had to make sure slides were completed on time and elevator pitch was finished before the expo. We had to manage our time proporly so we can balance it out with our other works. In other words, we were forced to plan out how to efficiently use our time so that we are able to finish everything. The journey to the expo allowed us to build on our skills of communication and time management.
